Google Ads Remarketing List documentation (#409)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: destinations/advertising/google-adwords-remarketing-list.mdx

| **Device mode**     | -               | -            | -                 |
| **Cloud mode**      | -               | -            |  **Supported**    |

<div class="infoBlock">

To know more about the difference between cloud mode and device mode in RudderStack, refer to the <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/">RudderStack Connection Modes</a> guide.
</div>

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to Google Adwords Remarketing Lists, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Google Adwords Remarketing Lists (Customer Match)**.

<div class="infoBlock">

Follow our guide on <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/connections/adding-source-and-destination-rudderstack/">Adding a Source and Destination in RudderStack</a> for more information.
</div>

2. Assign a name to your destination and click on **Next**.

### Connection settings

To successfully configure Google Adwords Remarketing Lists as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

> <img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/google-adwords-remarketing-lists-connection-settings-1.png" alt="Google Adwords Remarketing Lists (Customer Match) connection settings" />

Reviewer: We don't need the option of developer token

Author: yep - will update the screenshot here.

<li><strong>UserId</strong>: You can send third party user IDs in this list.</li>
<li><strong>Mobile Device ID</strong>: You can send mobile device IDs in this list.</li>
</ul>
</div>

- **Hash Required**: If enabled, RudderStack will hash the `email`, `phone`, `firstName`, and `lastName` fields in the SHA-256 format.
- **Schema Fields**: If you have select **General** as the list type, you will need to choose your schema fields (at least one) from the available options. The options are `hashedEmail`, `hashedPhoneNumber`, and `addressInfo`.

<div class="warningBlock">

RudderStack expects the user events to consist of all the schema fields listed here.
</div>

## `audiencelist` event structure

<div class="infoBlock">

The Google Adwords Remarketing Lists destination supports only <code class="inline-code">audiencelist</code> calls. You can send up to 100000 user records in one call.
</div>

<div class="warningBlock">

RudderStack currently supports only addition into a user list.
</div>

The following code snippet shows a sample `audienceList` call:

> ```json

Reviewer: Can we give some sdk example like fb custom audience

Reviewer: Python sdk maybe

Reviewer: Nps this not needed

Author: @ItsSudip can you share a sample snippet, please?

| `postalCode` | `postalCode` | Both the US and international zip and postal codes are allowed. For the US, 5 digit codes followed by 4 digit extensions are also allowed. For the rest of the countries, do not include the postal code extensions.
| `mobileId` | `mobileId` | Only include the mobile device ID. No other data types are accepted.
| `thirdPartyUserId` | `thirdPartyUserID` | Do not include any numbers. Only a string is accepted. |

## FAQs

### Where can I find my Google Adwords customer ID?

To get the customer ID associated with your Google Ads account, click on the **Help** option in your Google Ads dashboard. You will find the customer ID in the resulting pop-up, as shown:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/google-adwords-remarketing-lists-customer-id.png" alt="Google Adwords Remarketing Lists (Customer Match) connection settings" />

### How do I create a Google Ads customer list?

To create a customer list in Google Ads, follow these steps:

> 1. Open your Google Ads account.

Reviewer: Some pictorial representation would be helpful? Or is overkill ..thinking out loud

Author: we want to avoid unnecessary screenshots and the process is quite straightforward. I don't think we need a screenshot here.

Reviewer: Got it make sense

---
title: "Google Adwords Remarketing Lists (Customer Match)"
description: Step-by-step guide to send event data from RudderStack to Google Adwords Remarketing Lists.
---

# Google Adwords Remarketing Lists (Customer Match)

> Google Adwords Remarketing Lists lets you send a list of users (audience list) to Google Adwords and run targeted advertising campaigns without having to update the user list manually.

Reviewer 2: Is there any link we can add for 'Google Adwords Remarketing Lists'?
Google Adwords Remarketing Lists is a _marketing tool/platform (whatever it is)_ which lets you send a.....
will read better IMO
WDYT?

Author: IMO simply adding the URL should suffice, it's not a separate tool/platform.

| :-------------------| :-------------- | :----------- | :-----------------|
| **Device mode**     | -               | -            | -                 |
| **Cloud mode**      | -               | -            |  **Supported**    |

<div class="infoBlock">

To know more about the difference between cloud mode and device mode in RudderStack, refer to the <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/">RudderStack Connection Modes</a> guide.
</div>

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to Google Adwords Remarketing Lists, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Google Adwords Remarketing Lists (Customer Match)**.

<div class="infoBlock">

Follow our guide on <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/connections/adding-source-and-destination-rudderstack/">Adding a Source and Destination in RudderStack</a> for more information.
</div>

2. Assign a name to your destination and click on **Next**.

### Connection settings

To successfully configure Google Adwords Remarketing Lists as a destination, follow the steps below:

> 1. Give RudderStack access to your Google Ads account by clicking on **Connect with Google Ads Remarketing Lists (Customer Match)** under **Create new account**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Give access to RudderStack from your Google Ads account by clicking on **Connect with Google Ads Remarketing Lists (Customer Match)** under **Create new account**.
```

Author: Let's retain the original sentence as the user gets the required AdWords permissions from the RudderStack dashboard itself (by clicking on the option). The changes suggest the user needs to first go to their Google Ads account and then give the permissions.

2. Then, you will need to configure the following settings:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/google-adwords-remarketing-lists-connection-settings.png" alt="Google Adwords Remarketing Lists (Customer Match) connection settings" />

> - **List ID**: To get your Google Ads list ID, go to your Google Ads account and navigate to **Tools & settings** > **Audience Manager**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ListId**: To get your Google Ads list ID, go to your Google Ads account and navigate to **Tools & settings** > **Audience Manager**.
```
Shouldn't these terms be the same as in the connection settings screenshot? Thinking from the consistency POV too.. for future docs.. we can reach a consensus

- **Customer ID**: Enter the ID associated with your Google Ads account. You can find it by clicking on the **Help** option in your dashboard.

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on obtaining the customer ID, refer to the <a href="https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/1704344?hl=en">Google Ads Help Center</a> page.
</div>

<div class="warningBlock">

Do not include the dash(-) between the numbers in your customer ID. For example, if your customer ID is <code class="inline-code">123-456-7890</code>, then enter <code class="inline-code">1234567890</code> in this field.
</div>

> - **Subaccount**: Enable or disable this setting if you are using a Google Ads subaccount.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Subaccount**: Enable or disable this setting depending on whether you are using a Google Ads subaccount or not.
```

Author: A simpler alternative would be to just mention "Enable this setting if you are using a Google Ads subaccount."

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on subaccounts, refer to the <a href="https://support.google.com/campaignmanager/answer/2829448?hl=en#zippy=%2Cwhat-are-subaccounts">Google Ads Help Center</a> page.
</div>

- **Login-customer-ID**: Enter the customer ID of the parent account (associated with the subaccount).

<div class="infoBlock">

This field is required only when you want to send data to a customer list of a subaccount.
</div>

> - **Type of List**: Select the type of list that you want to create.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Type of List**: Select the type of list you want to create.
```

<div class="infoBlock">

You can create three types of list via this setting:
<ul>

> <li><strong>General</strong>: You can send email, phone number, and address information in this list. RudderStack will hash this data and send it to Google Adwords Remarketing Lists depending on the <strong>Hash Required</strong> setting.</li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<li><strong>General</strong>: You can send email, phone number, and address information in this list. RudderStack will hash this data and send it to Google Adwords Remarketing Lists depending on the <strong>Hash Required</strong> setting (enabled by default).</li>
```

<li><strong>UserId</strong>: You can send third party user IDs in this list.</li>
<li><strong>Mobile Device ID</strong>: You can send mobile device IDs in this list.</li>
</ul>
</div>

> - **Hash Required**: If enabled, RudderStack will hash the `email`, `phone`, `firstName`, and `lastName` fields in the SHA-256 format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Hash Required**: This setting is enabled by default and hashes the `email`, `phone`, `firstName`, and `lastName` fields in the SHA-256 format.
```

> - **Schema Fields**: If you have select **General** as the list type, you will need to choose your schema fields (at least one) from the available options. The options are `hashedEmail`, `hashedPhoneNumber`, and `addressInfo`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Schema Fields**: If you have selected **General** as the list type, you will need to choose your schema fields (at least one) from the available options. The options are `hashedEmail`, `hashedPhoneNumber`, and `addressInfo`.
```

<div class="warningBlock">

RudderStack expects the user events to consist of all the schema fields listed here.
</div>

## `audiencelist` event structure

<div class="infoBlock">

The Google Adwords Remarketing Lists destination supports only <code class="inline-code">audiencelist</code> calls. You can send up to 100000 user records in one call.
</div>

<div class="warningBlock">

RudderStack currently supports only addition into a user list.
</div>

The following code snippet shows a sample `audienceList` call:

```json
{
    "userId": "user1",
    "anonymousId": "anon-id-new",
    "event": "event1",
    "type": "audienceList",
    "properties": {
        "listData": {
            "create": [{

>                     "email": "alex@company.com",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    "email": "alex@example.com",
```

>                     "phone": "9876543210"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    "phone": "8005550100"
```

                },
                {

>                     "email": "emily@company.com",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    "email": "emily@example.com",
```

>                     "phone": "9786543210"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    "phone": "8005550100"
```

Reviewer 3: @ishachopra0401 can we use some other values (maybe 1234567890)? Even this seems like a valid phone number.

Reviewer 2: I checked this series from 555-0100 to 555-0199 is reserved for fictional use
[Reference](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/555_(telephone_number)#:~:text=Only%20555%2D0100%20through%20555,restricted%20only%20in%20North%20America.)
but yeah on second thought, it's for North America. We can use what you suggested. Thanks!

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/google-adwords-remarketing-lists-connection-settings-2.png" alt="Google Adwords Remarketing Lists (Customer Match) connection settings" />

- **List ID**: To get your Google Ads list ID, go to your Google Ads account and navigate to **Tools & settings** > **Audience Manager**.
- **Customer ID**: Enter the ID associated with your Google Ads account. You can find it by clicking on the **Help** option in your dashboard.

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on obtaining the customer ID, refer to the <a href="https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/1704344?hl=en">Google Ads Help Center</a> page.
</div>

<div class="warningBlock">

Do not include the dash(-) between the numbers in your customer ID. For example, if your customer ID is <code class="inline-code">123-456-7890</code>, then enter <code class="inline-code">1234567890</code> in this field.
</div>

- **Developer Token**: Enter the developer token required to connect your app to the Google Ads API. 

> 

Author: sure Sudip.

| RudderStack schema field | Google Adwords Remarketing Lists field | Guidelines |
| :-----| :--------| :------|
| `email` | `hashedEmail` | Include a domain name for all the email addresses. Remove any spaces in between the addresses. |
| `phone` | `hashedPhone` | Format the phone number using the [E.164 format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E.164). Include the country code as well. |
| `firstName` | `hashedFirstName` | Do not include any prefixes (e.g., `Mrs.`). | 
| `lastName` | `hashedLastName` | Do not include any suffixes (e.g., `Sr.`). |
| `country` | `countryCode` | Use the ISO two-letter/three-letter [country codes](https://developers.google.com/google-ads/api/reference/data/codes-formats#expandable-16). Include the country code even if all your users belong to the same country. | 
| `postalCode` | `postalCode` | Both the US and international zip and postal codes are allowed. For the US, 5 digit codes followed by 4 digit extensions are also allowed. For the rest of the countries, do not include the postal code extensions.
| `mobileId` | `mobileId` | Only include the mobile device ID. No other data types are accepted.

> | `thirdPartyUserId` | `thirdPartyUserID` | - |

Author: @ItsSudip do we need to add any specific info / things to keep in mind for `thirdPartyUserId`?

Reviewer 4: No there are not any suggestions from google about it. And I checked they are expecting everything except number. They are expecting strings only.

Author: Added this information.
